ESRI shapefile or better known as Shapefile, perhaps now is the format of geospatial data in vector form is most popular among people who are particularly engaged in the world of remote sensing and geographic information systems. The data format developed by ESRI company, is a non-topological data format with a simple function to store data geometric location and attribute information from a geographic data. The geographic data in the data format is represented by a point (points), lines (lines), or area (polygon). This data format itself began to be introduced in the early 1990s in the ArcView GIS software version 2, which at the present time format shapefile data already can be read and edited in a variety of geospatial software either paid or free.
In shapefile data format must be contained three files that must exist ie a file with the extension .shp, .shx, and .dbf. Files with the extension .shp is the main file that contains the main geographical reference data, while file denganekstensi .shx an index file that stores the index of the geometry data, and the latter is a file with the extension .dbf merupakakan dBase table that stores the attribute information of the data geographical. While optional files contained in that file with the extension shapefile: .prj, .xml, .cpg, .mxs, .ixs, .sbn and .sbx, .fbn and .fbx, .ain and .aih, and .atx -an.
Size data format shapefile should not exceed 2 GB (Gigabyte), denganjumlah maximum vertex or point (points) is 70 million points / vertices, whereas for the maximum amount in the form of lines (lines) and area (polygon) that can be accommodated depending on the number of vertices line compiler or the area.

reference : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shapefile
